==============================
Release 1.7.1 - tt. April 2020
==============================

Dieses ist ein Hotfix Release. Die vollständigen Änderungen der Version v1.7 bitte :doc:`hier <release/1_7>`
nachlesen.


.. note::

    Diese Release Notes sind ein Arbeitsstand.

     - Berücksichtigt sind Commits im smarthome Repository bis incl. 11. April 2020
       (sample_plugin: Bugfix)
     - Berücksichtigt sind Commits im plugins Repository bis incl. 11. April 2020
       (Div. plugins: Updated metadata (e.g. added state attribute))



Unterstützte Python Versionen
=============================

Die älteste offiziell unterstützte Python Version für SmartHomeNG Release 1.7 ist Python 3.5.
(Siehe auch *Hard- u. Software Anforderungen* im Abschnitt *Installation* zu unterstützten Python Versionen)

..
    Das bedeutet nicht unbedingt, dass SmartHomeNG ab Release 1.7 nicht mehr unter älteren Python Versionen läuft,
    sondern das SmartHomeNG nicht mehr mit älteren Python Versionen getestet wird und das gemeldete Fehler mit älteren
    Python Versionen nicht mehr zu Buxfixen führen.

    Es werden jedoch zunehmend Features eingesetzt, die erst ab Python 3.5 zur Verfügung stehen.


Absolute Minimum Python Version
===============================

Die Minimum Python Version in der SmartHomeNG startet wurde auf v3.5 angehoben, da Python 3.4 im Jahr 2019 End-of-Life
(End of security fixes) gegangen ist. Bei einer Neuinstallation wird jedoch empfohlen auf einer der neueren Python
Versionen (3.6 oder 3.7) aufzusetzen.

.. important::

   Mit dem kommenden Release 1.8 werden die unterstützten Python Versionen
   :doc:`(wie hier beschrieben) </installation/anforderungen>` auf **Python 3.6, 3.7, 3.8** angehoben. Python 3.6
   hat eine Reihe sehr interessanter Features und Verbesserungen gebracht, die dann in SmartHomeNG genutzt
   werden können.

   Sollten solche neuen Features in den Core Einzug halten, wird die **Absolute Minimum Python Version** auf 3.6
   angehoben werden. Sollten die Features nur in Plugins genutzt werden, so können nur solche Plugins nicht genutzt
   werden, wenn eine ältere Python Version als 3.6 eingesetzt wird.


Bugfixes in the CORE
--------------------

* lib.shpypi:

  * Fixed bug for requirements that are python-version specific and do not contain complete version requirements

* Modules:

  * admin:

    * Fixed bug in scheduler display which showed, if a crontab definition was assigning the value None


Updates in the CORE
-------------------

* ...

* Items:

  * ...

* Logics:

  * ...

* lib.shpypi:

  * Added way to configure PIP3 command to use, if problems arise with multiple Python3 environments on the computer

* Modules:

  * admin:

    * shngadmin: Plugins page - added icon to signal if a plugin is still in development mode

* Plugins:

  * ...

* tools:

  * Updated plugin_metadata_checker
  * Added Check for **mandantory** and **default** used together


New Plugins
-----------

For details of the changes of the individual plugins, please refer to the documentation of the respective plugin.

* <Name>: ...



Plugin Updates
--------------

* Div. plugins

  * Updated metadata (e.g. added or adjusted **state** attribute)

* comfoair

  * Changes port to type int

* iCal

  * reworked date extraction including proper time zone handling. Fixes various problems in start and end time handling
    due to incomplete time zone handling. Plugin now outputs all dates/times in local time zone defined by smarthomeNG
    config

* influxdb

  * Quick fix to allow configuration of non-standard port number

* Russound

   * improve log and fix caller origin bug

* yamahayxc

  * Update to 1.0.6 includes minor fixes and alarm clock functionality for supported devices


Outdated Plugins
----------------

The following plugins were already marked in version v1.6 as *deprecated*. This means that the plugins
are still working, but are not developed further anymore and are removed from the release of SmartHomeNG
in the next release. User of these plugins should switch to corresponding succeeding plugins.

* System Plugins

  * sqlite - switch to the **database** plugin
  * sqlite_visu2_8 - switch to the **database** plugin

* Gateway Plugins

  * tellstick - classic Plugin, not used according to survey in knx-user-forum

* Interface Plugins

  * netio230b - classic plugin, not used according to survey in knx-user-forum
  * smawb - classic plugin, not used according to survey in knx-user-forum

* Web Plugins

  * alexa - switch to the **alexa4p3** plugin
  * boxcar - classic Plugin, not used according to survey in knx-user-forum
  * mail - switch to the **mailsend** and **mailrcv** plugin
  * openenergymonitor - classic plugin, not used according to survey in knx-user-forum
  * wunderground - the free API is not provided anymore by Wunderground


The following plugins are marked as *deprecated* with SmartHomeNG v1.7, because neither user nor tester have been found:

* Gateway Plugins

  * ecmd
  * elro
  * iaqstick
  * snom
  * tellstick

* Interface Plugins

  * easymeter
  * netio230b
  * smawb
  * vr100

* Web Plugins

  * boxcar
  * nma

Moreover, the previous mqtt plugin was renamed to mqtt1 and marked as *deprecated*, because the new mqtt
plugin takes over the functionality. This plugin is based on the mqtt module and the recent core.


Documentation
-------------

* Sample Plugin:

  * Updated with parameter-examples in metadata

* User Documentation

  * ...

* Developer Documentation

  * ...
